
You’ve set up a new laptop and need to configure Git with your GitHub account.
What steps would you take to install Git and link it with your GitHub username
and email?
22.You need to update your Git configuration with a new email address. What
commands would you use to change the user email?
23.You’ve just created a new project folder on your local machine. How would you
initialize a Git repository and link it to your GitHub repository?
24.You need to work on a new feature without affecting the main branch. How would
you create a new branch, switch to it, and push it to GitHub?
25.You want to create a new feature without affecting the main code. How would you
create a new branch, switch to it, and merge it back once the feature is complete?
26.You need to start working on a hotfix while another feature branch is still in
progress. How would you create a separate branch for the hotfix and merge it into
main without affecting the other feature branch?

Note:- I use ubuntu
ChatGPT said:
Here’s how you can handle each of these Git tasks on your Ubuntu machine:

21. Install Git and Configure GitHub Account
Install Git
Open a terminal and run:

sudo apt update
sudo apt install git -y
Verify Installation
Check if Git is installed correctly:

git --version
Configure Git with Your GitHub Username and Email

git config --global user.name "YourGitHubUsername"
git config --global user.email "your-email@example.com"
Check Configuration

git config --global --list
Generate SSH Key (Optional but Recommended for Authentication)

ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -C "your-email@example.com"
Press Enter to save the key in the default location.
Copy the key to GitHub:
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
Go to GitHub SSH settings, click New SSH Key, and paste the key.
22. Update Git User Email
If you need to update the email for future commits:

git config --global user.email "new-email@example.com"
To update the email for a specific repository:

git config --local user.email "new-email@example.com"
23. Initialize a Git Repository and Link to GitHub
Navigate to the project folder:
cd /path/to/your/project
Initialize Git:
git init
Add a README file (optional but recommended):
echo "# MyProject" >> README.md
Stage and commit the initial files:
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"
Link the repository to GitHub:
git remote add origin https://github.com/YourGitHubUsername/YourRepoName.git
Push the repository to GitHub:
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main
24. Create a New Branch, Switch to It, and Push to GitHub
Create a new branch:
git branch feature-branch
Switch to the new branch:
git checkout feature-branch
OR (shortcut)
git checkout -b feature-branch
Push the branch to GitHub:
git push -u origin feature-branch
25. Create a New Branch, Work on It, and Merge It Back
Create and switch to the new branch:
git checkout -b new-feature
Make changes and commit:
git add .
git commit -m "Added new feature"
Switch back to the main branch:
git checkout main
Merge the feature branch into the main branch:
git merge new-feature
Push the updated main branch to GitHub:
git push origin main
26. Start a Hotfix While Another Feature Branch is in Progress
Ensure you are on the main branch:
git checkout main
Create a hotfix branch:
git checkout -b hotfix-issue
Apply changes, commit, and merge into the main branch:
git add .
git commit -m "Fixed critical bug"
git checkout main
git merge hotfix-issue
Push the hotfix changes to GitHub:
git push origin main
Switch back to the original feature branch (if needed):
git checkout feature-branch
Let me know if you need any modifications! 🚀

You said:
27.You’ve modified multiple files in your project. How would you stage all the
changes, commit them with a message, and push them to the GitHub repository?
28.You’ve made edits to specific files. How would you stage only those files, commit
them with a message, and push them to GitHub?
29.You’ve made changes to a file but haven’t staged or committed them. What Git
commands would you use to add the file and commit the changes with a
descriptive message?
30.You’ve completed work on a feature branch and want to merge it into the main
branch. What steps would you follow to ensure a smooth merge?
31.You’ve completed work on a feature branch and want to merge it into main
without fast-forwarding. What Git commands would you use?
32.After merging a feature branch into main, you no longer need the branch. How
would you safely delete it locally and on GitHub?
ChatGPT said:
Here’s how to handle these Git tasks efficiently on Ubuntu:

27. Stage All Changes, Commit, and Push to GitHub
If you've modified multiple files and want to stage everything, commit, and push:

git add .
git commit -m "Your commit message"
git push origin branch-name
git add . → Stages all changes.
git commit -m "Your commit message" → Commits with a message.
git push origin branch-name → Pushes the changes to GitHub.
28. Stage Only Specific Files, Commit, and Push
If you've modified specific files and only want to stage those:

git add file1.txt file2.txt
git commit -m "Updated file1 and file2"
git push origin branch-name
git add file1.txt file2.txt → Stages only the selected files.
git commit -m "Updated file1 and file2" → Commits with a message.
git push origin branch-name → Pushes to GitHub.
29. Add and Commit Changes to a File
If you've made changes but haven’t staged or committed them:

git add filename.txt
git commit -m "Descriptive commit message"
git add filename.txt → Stages the file.
git commit -m "Descriptive commit message" → Commits the change.
30. Merge a Feature Branch into Main Smoothly
To merge your feature branch into main:

Ensure you’re on the main branch:
git checkout main
Pull the latest changes (to avoid conflicts):
git pull origin main
Merge the feature branch:
git merge feature-branch
Push the updated main branch to GitHub:
git push origin main
Delete the feature branch if no longer needed:
git branch -d feature-branch
31. Merge Without Fast-Forwarding
To keep a record of the branch history and avoid a fast-forward merge:

git checkout main
git pull origin main
git merge --no-ff feature-branch
git push origin main
--no-ff → Ensures a merge commit is created even if it's a fast-forward merge.
32. Delete a Feature Branch Locally and on GitHub
Delete Locally
git branch -d feature-branch
If the branch is not fully merged, use:
git branch -D feature-branch
Delete on GitHub
git push origin --delete feature-branch
Let me know if you need further clarifications! 🚀

You said:
33.You’re collaborating with a colleague on a new project. How would you create a
GitHub repository and share it with your teammate?
34.You’ve been assigned a new project and need to create a GitHub repository with a
README.md and a .gitignore for .java. How would you achieve this?
35.You’re tasked with hosting a new project on GitHub. How would you create a
repository, add a license file, and enable branch protection rules?
36.Your project requires contributions from an external developer. How would you
invite them to the GitHub repository and ensure they have the correct access level?
ChatGPT said:
33. Create a GitHub Repository and Share It with a Teammate
To collaborate with a colleague, follow these steps:

Step 1: Create a New Repository
Go to GitHub.
Click on your profile icon and select Your repositories.
Click New.
Provide a repository name, description, and choose Public or Private.
Click Create Repository.
Step 2: Initialize and Push Code
If you have a project locally:

git init
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/your-username/repository-name.git
git push -u origin main
Step 3: Invite a Collaborator
Go to your repository on GitHub.
Click Settings → Collaborators.
Under Manage access, click Invite a collaborator.
Enter your teammate’s GitHub username or email.
Click Add collaborator and choose the appropriate role.
34. Create a GitHub Repository with README.md and .gitignore for Java
Using GitHub Web Interface
Go to GitHub and create a new repository.
Check Add a README file.
Under .gitignore, select Java.
Click Create Repository.
Using Command Line (Ubuntu)
Create a new repository on GitHub (without initialization).
In Ubuntu Terminal, run:
mkdir project-name
cd project-name
git init
echo "# Project Name" >> README.md
echo "*.class" >> .gitignore
echo "target/" >> .gitignore
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit with README and .gitignore"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/your-username/repository-name.git
git push -u origin main
35. Create a Repository, Add a License, and Enable Branch Protection
Step 1: Create the Repository
Go to GitHub and create a new repository.
Check Add a README file.
Select a license under Add a license (e.g., MIT, Apache 2.0).
Step 2: Clone Locally and Push Initial Files
git clone https://github.com/your-username/repository-name.git
cd repository-name
echo "# Project Name" >> README.md
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit with license"
git push origin main
Step 3: Enable Branch Protection
Go to your repository on GitHub.
Click Settings → Branches.
Under Branch Protection Rules, select Add rule.
Choose main as the protected branch.
Enable:
Require pull request reviews before merging.
Require status checks to pass before merging.
Restrict who can push to the branch.
Click Save changes.
36. Invite an External Developer and Manage Access
Step 1: Invite the Developer
Go to your repository on GitHub.
Click Settings → Collaborators.
Under Manage access, click Invite a collaborator.
Enter the developer’s GitHub username/email.
Click Invite and select an access level:
Read → View the code.
Triage → Manage issues.
Write → Contribute code.
Maintain → Manage repository settings.
Admin → Full control (not recommended for external developers).
Step 2: Grant Correct Access
If the developer needs to contribute code, grant Write or Maintain access.
If using pull requests, ensure branch protection rules are enabled.
Let me know if you need more details! 🚀

You said:
After collaborating with a colleague, you notice they pushed changes to GitHub.
How would you pull those updates into your local repository without losing your
work?
38.You and a teammate are working on the same project. They’ve pushed some
changes. How would you pull those changes into your local branch and handle
merge conflicts if they arise?
39.You’re working on a feature, and your teammate pushed updates to the main
branch. How would you pull those changes into your current branch without
conflicts?
ChatGPT said:
37. Pull Updates Without Losing Your Work
If your colleague has pushed changes to GitHub and you want to pull them into your local repository without losing your work:

Step 1: Commit Your Changes (If Any)
Before pulling, ensure your local changes are saved:

git add .
git commit -m "Saving local changes before pulling updates"
Step 2: Pull the Latest Changes
git pull origin main
If there are no conflicts, Git will merge the changes automatically.

Step 3: If You Have Uncommitted Changes
If you haven’t committed your changes and want to pull updates:

git stash  # Saves your local changes temporarily
git pull origin main  # Pulls the latest changes
git stash pop  # Restores your saved changes
38. Pull Changes and Handle Merge Conflicts
If your teammate has pushed changes, follow these steps:

Step 1: Pull Updates from GitHub
git pull origin main
If there are no conflicts, the changes will merge automatically.

Step 2: Handle Merge Conflicts (If Any)
If Git detects a conflict, it will show a message like:

CONFLICT (content): Merge conflict in <filename>
To resolve:

Open the conflicting file and look for conflict markers (<<<<<<<, =======, >>>>>>>).
Manually edit the file to keep the correct changes.
Once resolved, run:
git add <filename>
git commit -m "Resolved merge conflict in <filename>"
git push origin main
39. Pull Main Branch Updates into Your Feature Branch Without Conflicts
If you’re working on a feature branch and need to integrate the latest main branch updates:

Step 1: Switch to Your Feature Branch
git checkout feature-branch
Step 2: Fetch and Merge main into Your Branch
git fetch origin
git merge origin/main
If there are no conflicts, Git will merge automatically.

Step 3: Handle Conflicts (If Any)
If conflicts appear, resolve them as mentioned in Step 2 of question 38.

Alternative: Rebase Instead of Merge
If you want a cleaner commit history, use:

git rebase main
This reapplies your commits on top of the latest main. If conflicts arise, resolve them and continue rebasing:

git add .
git rebase --continue
Let me know if you need further clarification! 🚀
