Here’s how you can handle each of these tasks:


---

1. Local Git Initialization & Linking to GitHub

You’ve created a new project folder and want to initialize it as a Git repository and link it to an existing GitHub repository.

Steps:

1. Navigate to the Project Folder:

cd /path/to/your/project


2. Initialize the Repository:

git init


3. Add the Remote GitHub Repository:

git remote add origin <repository-URL>


4. Verify the Remote Repository:

git remote -v


5. Add and Commit Files:

git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"


6. Push to GitHub:

git push -u origin main

(Replace main with master or another branch if needed.)




---

2. Git Pull and Merge Handling

Your teammate has pushed changes, and you need to pull and merge them into your local branch.

Steps:

1. Ensure You Are on the Correct Branch:

git checkout main


2. Pull the Latest Changes:

git pull origin main


3. Handle Merge Conflicts (If Any):

Git will notify you of conflicts in specific files.

Open the conflicting files and manually resolve differences.

After resolving conflicts, mark them as resolved:

git add <file_name>

Complete the merge with:

git commit -m "Resolved merge conflicts"



4. Push the Merged Changes (If Necessary):

git push origin main




---

3. Jira Filter Creation

You need to create a JQL filter to track all open issues assigned to your team.

Steps:

1. Navigate to Jira Advanced Search:

Open Jira and go to Filters > Advanced Issue Search.



2. Enter JQL Query:

assignee in (currentUser()) AND status != Done ORDER BY created DESC

(Modify currentUser() if you need a specific team, e.g., assignee in (user1, user2, user3).)


3. Save the Filter:

Click Save As and give it a name (e.g., "Team Open Issues").



4. Share the Filter:

Go to Filters > View all filters.

Find your saved filter and click Details.

Under Sharing, select the appropriate Group/Project and set visibility.



5. Use the Filter in a Dashboard or Board:

Use the saved filter in Jira boards, dashboards, or subscriptions.




Would you like additional refinements on any of these topics?
